The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Snow Man, by Laurence Housman

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The Snow Man
       A metrical play in one act

Author: Laurence Housman

Release Date: March 14, 2023 [eBook #70285]

Language: English

Produced by: Charlene Taylor, Krista Zaleski and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was
             produced from images generously made available by The
             Internet Archive/American Libraries.)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE SNOW MAN ***





Transcriber’s Notes

Obvious typographical errors have been silently corrected. Variations
in hyphenation and accents have been standardised but all other
spelling and punctuation remains unchanged.

Italics are represented thus _italic_.




  The Snow Man: a Metrical
  Play in One Act:
  by Laurence Housman


  Samuel French: Publisher

  28-30 West Thirty-eighth Street: New York

  LONDON

  Samuel French, Ltd.

  26 SOUTHAMPON STREET STRAND


  _PRICE TWENTY-FIVE CENTS_




  Copyright, 1916,
  by LAURENCE HOUSMAN


    CAUTION.--Amateurs and Professionals are hereby warned that
    “THE SNOW MAN”, being fully protected under the copyright
    laws of the United States, is subject to royalty, and any
    one presenting the play without the consent of the author or
    his authorized agent, will be liable to the penalties by law
    provided. Application for the right to produce “THE SNOW MAN”
    must be made to Samuel French, 28-30 West 38th Street, New York
    City.

ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.




THE SNOW MAN.




CHARACTERS.


  JOAN               _A peasant woman_
  MARY ANN      }
  MATTHEW MARK  }       _Her children_
  JASPAR                 _Her husband_
  THE SNOW MAN




THE SNOW MAN


    SCENE:--_A poor peasant dwelling, barely furnished with
    articles of the roughest description, a tressle-table, two
    benches,--a large one serving as a window-seat, and a smaller
    one standing by the hearth,--a wooden chair, a spinning wheel,
    a large bread pan, a shelf containing household crockery, and
    on the inner wall of the ingle a few pots and pans hanging
    on the wall. The room is wide and low; to the left is a deep
    hooded fireplace with containing walls on either side of
    it,--to one side a bread oven, to the other a cubby-bed with
    doors; opposite to the fireplace is a door leading to the
    woodshed. The house door is at the back rather to the right;
    in its left a long low window extends almost to a line with
    the fireplace. In the right hand corner stands a large chest.
    The roof is of heavy beams gray with smoke, and between them
    shows an inner surface of thatch, the walls are of blue plaster
    marked by mildew, with patches here and there where the plaster
    has peeled off. It is winter and daylight is drawing in.
    Outside the world is white with snow. A peasant-woman moves
    to and fro with quick dogged pace. The pace of a hard worker
    tired but always pushed for time. She takes black bread out of
    the oven, lays it out on the table, cuts off two pieces, and
    puts the remainder into the bread-pan. Then she takes down the
    garments from before the fire, presses them with a heavy iron,
    and puts them away in the chest. While crossing the room to
    and fro she economizes her time, never going empty-handed.
    She puts milk to warm on the fire, and gets down two small
    mugs from a shelf. She also gets from the cubby-bed two night
    garments, and hangs them to warm over the bench by the hearth.
    While she is thus engaged, children’s voices are heard outside,
    laughing and shouting. The woman, absorbed in her work, pays
    no attention. Two small romping figures occasionally pass the
    window. Presently they begin to sing._

CHILDREN.--

  Here we have a snowman, a snowman, a snowman!
  Oh, where does he come from, and what shall be his name?
  He says his name is no man, no man, no man!
  And nowhere and nowhere the land from which he came.

    (_Now again_)

  Oh, why did you come here, oh, snowman, oh, snowman?
  And will you now a friend be, or will you be a foe?
  “Oh, whether I a friend am, or whether I’m a foe-man,
  It’s here I mean to stay now, until I have to go!”

    (_Now again_)

  But what should you go for, oh, snowman, oh, snowman?
  And why would you leave us, when home lies at hand?
  “Oh, when the sun calls me, then I can wait for no man,
  But back I must go again, to my own land!”
  And now we’ve made him, he’ll have to stay,
  Ha! Ha! Ha! He can’t get away.

    (_The door bursts open, the two children run in_: MATTHEW MARK
    _and_ MARY ANN.)

MARY.--

  Oh, mother, come and look at our snowman.

MATTHEW.--

  Mother, do look at him.

MARY.--

  When we began
  A-building him, we didn’t ever know
  How big he’d get to be--he seemed to grow
  All by himself!

MATTHEW.--

  Mother, do look!

JOAN.--

  There, there!
  It’s “look,” “look,” “look,” all day!

    (_She speaks in a good-humored scolding tone which the children
    seem not in the least afraid of. She goes and looks out_)

  Well, I declare,
  You’ve done a silly thing--made ’im to stand
  Right in the door!--with no room either ’and
  For folks to get by.

MATTHEW.--

  Yah!

MARY.--

  Yah! Ah, ha! That’s why.

MATTHEW.--

  We didn’t want to let no folk get by
  To steal our muvver!

    (_He rubs against her_)

JOAN.--

  Here, and what d’yer mean
  Getting yourself all wet like this? You’ve been
  And clammed yourself,--you too. Now off you go!
  Take all those things off! One can’t ever know
  What children will be up to next. Come here!

    (_Catches hold of_ MATTHEW)

  Now you undress yourself.

    (_To_ MARY)

  You get in there
  Into the warm. Stand still, stand still, I say,
  And put this round yer. Oh, so that’s the way
  You do when I ain’t looking? All day long
  You’re up to mischief. Always something wrong
  Soon as my back is turned. That heap o’ snow
  How long’s that to stay there, I’d like to know?
  Here, take your milk, and there’s a bit o’ bread
  For both on yer. Don’t want it? Ah, it’s bed
  You’d best be off to! There, put your mug down!
  Now come and get into your nighty-gown.
  Ah, you sweet thing! Well, kiss your mother then!
  But you mind what I say--no more snowmen
  To-morrow!

    (_Crosses the room_)

MARY.--

  Mother--Mother--will there be
  Anyone here to-morrow? Shan’t we see
  Someone?

JOAN.--

  See someone?

MARY.--

  I mean, won’t there no
  Man come with a spade and clear away the snow?
  Last year one come.

JOAN.--

  That was your father,--he
  Haven’t been near us since, and where he be
  God alone knows. Here! Don’t fill your ’ead
  With silly fancies! You get on to bed.

    (_She goes out into the woodshed_)

MATTHEW.--

  Say! Say! She’s gone! come along, Mary Ann
  And have another look at our snowman.

    (_They run across to the window_)

  Snowman! Snowman!

MARY. It’s no good, he don’t hear, he’s gone to sleep.

    (_Re-enter_ JOAN.)

JOAN. Ah, what are you up to there? Back you go, quick. Or else you’ll
get the rod! (_They skip back to the fireplace_) Now you kneel down and
say your prayers. “Pray God”----

    (_The two children kneel at bench with their backs to the
    fire._)

CHILDREN. “Pray God”----

JOAN. (_As she moves about folding up clothes, etc._) “Pray God make
Baba good”----

CHILDREN. Pray God make Baba good.

JOAN. “Give Baba bread.”

CHILDREN. Give Baba bread.

JOAN. “Give all the hungry food”----

CHILDREN. Give all the hungry food.

JOAN. “Peace to the dead.” (_Crosses herself_)

CHILDREN. Peace to the dead.

    (JOAN _stands lost in reverie and speaks unconsciously by
    rote_.)

JOAN. “God bless”--(_She turns and looks out_)

CHILDREN. God bless--(_They wait to be prompted_)

MATTHEW. Say, muvver, shall we pray for the snowman too? Shall us?
Shall us?

JOAN. (_Still musing_) Nay, nay! You leave the snowman out! He knows
his way--he knows his way.

CHILDREN.--

                { sister  }
  Bless mother, { brother } kind friends all about,
  Bring Dada home, and leave the snowman out.
      Amen.

    (JOAN _stands lost in her own thoughts. The children creep
    behind her toward the window._)

MARY. Good-night, snowman!

MATTHEW. Good-night!

    (_They approach_ JOAN.)

MARY. Good-night, mother!

JOAN. Good-night, darling!

MATTHEW. Night, mother.

JOAN. Night-night, my dear,--night-night!

    (MARY ANN _goes and opens cubby-bed and begins to climb in_.
    MATTHEW _stops outside_.)

MATTHEW.--

  Matthew, Mark, Luke and John,
  Guard the bed that I lie on;
  Four corners to my bed,
  Four angels at my head,
  One to watch, and one to pray,
  And two to----

JOAN. There, you get in! you’ve prayed enough to-night. (_She goes to
close doors_)

MARY. Don’t shut it up yet, mother, leave a light.

JOAN.--

  Just you be quiet. Be thankful you lie warm,
  There’s some as won’t to-night. I can hear storm
  A-coming on.

    (_She leaves door of cubby-bed half open._)

MATTHEW. Sing, mother, will ye sing?

JOAN. (_Putting away the bread and the milk-mugs and folding up the
strewn garments; starts to sing in a dull toneless voice with little
tune_)

  There come a man to a maid, and said,
    All in a year and a day----
  “So thou be mine now let us be wed
    Out of the world and away.”

  Said the maid to the man, “If I thee wed
    Out of the world and away,
  Bide ’e at home, and find me bread----
    Just for a year and a day.”

  They hadn’t been wed, the maid and the man,
    For a year, for a year and a day,
  Before a want in his heart began,
    To be out to the world and away.

  “Oh, wife, there’s come a call to my blood,
    To be out in the world and away,
  By road and river, by field and flood,
    Just for a year and a day.”

  Out and away to the world he went,
    By road and river and sea.
  Oh, man of the road, is your heart content?
    Will ’e never come back to me?

    (_She goes and looks at the children and sees that they are
    asleep_)

  Oh, man of the road, is your heart content?
    Will ’e never come back to me?

    (_While she sings, the firelight dies down and the light of the
    candle loses its warmth. Outside is a sound of rising wind, and
    the soft lash of snow against the pane. She goes and looks out
    of window_)

  Ah, there be storm, black blasts with icy breath!
  The night’s gone colder now, aye cold like death,
  Cold!

    (_She shivers--three knocks are struck on the door_)

  Who be there? Who is it? Whence do’e come?

    (_Another knock, very faint_)

  Have you no word? What, are ye deaf and dumb?
    Or--dead?

    (_Knock. The light burns blue. She opens the door. Pause.
    Slowly the snowman enters and moves across the room toward the
    bed_)

  No, stop! Not there, not there!

    (_She interposes and lays hold of him. A cold rigour seizes
    her_)

SNOWMAN. Why do you touch me?

JOAN. Why do you come here? Who are you? Answer! (_He again moves
forward_) No, you don’t go there! You shan’t, you shan’t come nigh of
’em.

SNOWMAN. Take care! My touch is--cold!

JOAN.--

  You think I’m feard o’ that?
  You think them eyes as I be looking at
  Have any fear for me, or shape of dread?
  Worse that what life ’ave?

    (_With a sort of exultation_)

  Why, if I were dead!

    (_Pause. The snowman lifts his hand and points toward the bed._
    JOAN _sees his meaning_.)

SNOWMAN. If you were dead?

JOAN.--

  No, no, I say you lie!
  My little ’uns? God wouldn’t let ’em die.
  ’A wouldn’t have the heart, ’a wouldn’t have the heart.

SNOWMAN.--

  Yet there’s a heart,
    Now quick to beat,
  Which, this same night,
    Must lose its heat.
  To give strength to a lame man’s feet.

JOAN.--

  A lame man?

SNOWMAN.--

  Gray-headed, bent,
  He scarce can go,
  His strength is spent
  In drifts of snow,
  And all the icy blasts that blow.

JOAN.--

  I don’t know who you mean.

SNOWMAN.--

  Give me your hand,
  And you shall see,
  Here, close at hand, snow-bound goes he.
  Give me your hand,
  And come with me.

JOAN.--

  With you? Why do you think I’d come with you?
  I’ve got my children, I’ve a husband, too,
  One as I love.

SNOWMAN.--

  And he--does he love you?

JOAN.--

  That’s no concern o’ yourn!
  Aye, ’a did once, Aye! and ’a will again,
  Some day, perhaps. When he first married me,
  ’A did,--’a did! We’ve sat here in this room
  A-kissing by the hour! That were before
  The children come. Children do make a house
  No comfort to a man. He had his right
  To go. He didn’t want ’em, but I did!
  I did!
  Aye! and I’ve ’ad ’em now a whole seven years,
  Worked for ’em, I lived for ’em, starved for ’em,
  And I’d die
  So it could better ’em.

SNOWMAN.--

  And what--for him?

JOAN.--

  I’ve broke my ’eart for ’im; it’s past its work,
  And now it ain’t no use--no use--to ’im.

SNOWMAN.--

  Its use has come. Oh, woman give
  Your heart to me, I’ll make it live.
  And what you lend he shall receive.

JOAN.--

  You can’t. You can’t do that----
  You can’t raise up the sun when once it’s set;
  You can’t put new roots in us, when we’re old,
  Dried up, and withered.

SNOWMAN.--

  Yet within kind earth
  Dry seed goes sown
  And springs again to birth.

JOAN.--

  I’ve ’ad enough of earth. I’ve sowed, I’ve reaped,
  I’ve gathered, and I’ve strawed. But me and ’im
  We won’t meet any more. He ’aven’t come,
  Nigh me--not for a year.
  And when he did come back--he went again
  Next day.

SNOWMAN. Went? Where?

JOAN. Nowhere. He roves about. Seeing the world, ’e calls it. Roving
blood. That’s been ’is curse; and mind, ’is roving blood, it haven’t
always roved. He liked his ease, he liked the victuals I give him well
enough, he liked his fireside, and he liked his bed when I was by ’im.
Ah! And then one day he’d ’ad enough of comfort, and was off,--looking
for what? ’Ardship? He might have ’ad that ’ere if he’d but stayed.
Aye, that ’e could--for it’s been ’ard enough--with they two there. Ah,
you may look at ’em, they ’aven’t known trouble--yet they was with me
all the time. Why, there’ve been days when I’ve not ’ad enough to eat
myself. And what ’ave fed me? Just to ’ear ’em laugh and think they
’aven’t known. What do you look at me like that for? What do you know?
What did you come for? Say!

SNOWMAN. To bring you comfort.

JOAN. Comfort? I’ve got no place for comfort in me now. It isn’t that I
want--it’s rest.

SNOWMAN. ’Tis rest I bring.

JOAN. Where’s ’e?

SNOWMAN. Here--near at hand. Come, come and do not be afraid. (_He
takes her hand_)

JOAN. Oh, dearie me. This feels like death. Like death!

    (_As they touch hands a mist draws over the stage, the walls
    of the house seem to fade away, the sound of the storm grows
    loud around them. They stand in a white world full of obscure
    movement and pale drifting forms._)

SNOWMAN. What do you see?

JOAN. A waste of snow.

SNOWMAN. Anyone there?

JOAN. No one I know. No--only you. What? You say you saw him on the
road, coming? How do you know that it was ’im? Yes--yes--’e was like
that. But younger, ’andsomer than that,--not lame----

  No, he was never lame--a young, young man,
  And strong!----
  Oh, lost his way? You say ’e’d lost his way?
  Well, maybe that might tire ’im just a bit,
  But oh, he’d find it! Oh, trust him for that!
  He’s been all round the world--and lost his way
  Through coming ’ome. Yes, yes, he’s coming ’ome.
  Ah! Now I see ’im. Yes, I’m ’ere, I’m ’ere!
  Waiting for yer,--waiting--expecting yer.
  Ah, never mind. Though yer don’t love me, still
  It’s back to me you come! Yer can’t ’elp that
  That’s ’ow God made yer. That’s why He made me.
  No! I can’t reach yer. No, he’s got my hand,
  Holding it, holding it,--and won’t leave go!
  I’d ’elp yer, if I could. I’d die for yer!
  But he won’t let me go.
  ----I’m cold, I’m cold!
  Can’t see!--I’ve lost my way,
  And I shan’t--never--any more come home!

    (_The snowman looses her hand, and she falls. The mist clears
    from a dark stage, the walls close in again, the chamber
    remains in darkness. A figure stumbles past the window, the
    door is thrown open, the Snowman stands aside. Enter_ JASPAR.)

JASPAR.--

  Home! Home, at last! Who’s there? Anyone there?
  What? Nobody? No fire? Oh, bitter cold----
  It feels like death!

    (_Fumbles for match-box_)

  Here, fool, give me a light!
  Light, can’t yer? Ah, what’s that, what’s that, what’s that?
  Who are yer? What for are you lying there?
  Get up! Get up! What makes ’e be so cold?
  So clammed?

    (_Strikes a light_)

  What the,--! My wife! It be my wife!
  Wife! Don’t ’e hear me? It be I, come back,
  Jaspar come back--Jaspar come home again----
  Jaspar--why don’t ’e answer? There, now there!
  Have that to warm yer. Oh, ye’ll soon come round,
  Ye’ve starved yerself, ye--! Ah--she’s dead, she’s dead!

    (_He lifts her onto the chair by the hearth and now holds the
    candle to her face, then draws away with a growing fear of what
    other deaths may be there. He advances to the crib, and looks
    in on the sleeping children. He assures himself that they are
    alive. It startles him to fresh hope; he turns back to his
    wife_)

  No, she ain’t dead, she can’t be, they’re alive!
  She wouldn’t leave ’em. No, she can’t be dead.
  Wife, do ’e hear? The children be alive.
  You wouldn’t go and leave ’em, no, not you----
  ’Twouldn’t be like yer. There, my--there, come, come!
  Take warmth o’ me,--out of my ’eart and soul!
  I’ll make ye warm.

    (_He takes her to his heart_)

  Why, I was coming ’ome.
  I’d ’a been yere before, but I lost my way,
  Got buried in the snow. Then I ’eard you
  A-callin’ me! I thought I saw your face,
  Then it all went, and then, my feet grew strong,
  Life come to me, and warmth, and here I be!
  Can’t ’e speak to me? Be ye gone so far
  As ’e can’t ’ear me? Not the word I’d say
  To tell ’e how I loved ’e?
  Ah, now I be in ’ell, I be in ’ell!
  And ’a won’t never know.

    (_Her hand falls out across chair, pointing toward the crib_)

  What’s that to say?
  Oh, the dear hand. Yes, I’ll look after ’em.
  They shan’t know want--and I won’t go away----
  The way I’d wish to go. I’ll bear my life
  And all the burden of it. There, there, my lass,
  Rest ye in peace, I’ll do my best by ’em!
  I’ll do my best.

    (_He bends and kisses her on the lips. The Snowman makes a pass
    toward her with his hand. She moves, and opens her eyes, all
    dazed and dreaming_)

JOAN. Who’s that, who’s that got hold o’ me? Let go! I must go to ’im.

JASPAR. No, no, bide ’e still. Here’s Jaspar!

JOAN. Jaspar!

JASPAR. Oh, you be alive! (_He sinks down broken, with his head on
her breast. She takes his head in her hands stroking it softly. The
Snowman moves slowly to the door, fades through it, and disappears_)

JOAN. So you’ve come back, I knew you’d come--some day. What’s this?
(_She touches the coat_)

JASPAR. My coat. I found you lyin’ there cold, so I put it round yer.
But you made no sign--until I thought as yer was dead.

JOAN. Dead? Would I leave ’em? Leave my little ’uns?

JASPAR. Ah, there you do get home. It’s a true charge. It’s what I done.

JOAN. You ’ad the roving blood. You couldn’t ’elp it.

JASPAR. It ain’t brought me no joy.

JOAN.--

  Jaspar, I think you’ve come here in a dream.
  Put your arms round me and ’old me. Don’t let go.
  Help me to dream, I’d like for it to last
  Just one more hour--put your ’ead on my heart.
  And don’t you speak--don’t speak--I want to dream,
  You be come back again! I want to dream.

    (_They lie still in each other’s arms. Dawn light begins to
    creep in. A sound of sliding snow is heard on the roof, a sharp
    twittering of birds; down across the window masses of snow fall
    in soft thunder. There follows a sound of dropping water: the
    thaw has begun. The outer world grows radiant with light. The
    doors of the cubby-bed fly open, the two children peep out. A
    soft but heavy crash of falling snow is heard. It strikes the
    door._)

MARY. Mother, what’s that? Get up, get up, it’s light! (_Jumps out
of bed, followed by_ MATTHEW) Oh, come and look! The snow’s all
falling--right down off the roof. Look how it’s letting go!

MATTHEW. Oh, the snowman. Look at the snowman! Oh! (_Opens door_)

MARY. Mother, the snowman’s tumbled in the night.

    (JOAN _opens her eyes_.)

JOAN. Hush, hush, don’t wake ’im. Come ’e and look ’ere.

    (_The children approach softly, curious and surprised._)

MARY. Who is it, mother?

JOAN. The snowman, my dear. He’s come to stay.


CURTAIN.




THE WORLD’S BEST PLAYS

By Celebrated European Authors

A NEW SERIES OF AMATEUR PLAYS BY THE BEST AUTHORS, ANCIENT AND MODERN,
ESPECIALLY TRANSLATED WITH HISTORICAL NOTES, SUGGESTIONS FOR STAGING,
Etc., FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS, COLLEGES, AND DRAMATIC CLUBS

BARRETT H. CLARK

General Editor


With the immensely increased demand for new plays for purposes of
production by amateurs comes a correspondingly great demand for a
careful selection of those plays which can be easily and well presented
by clubs and colleges. The plays in the present series have been chosen
with regard to their intrinsic value as drama and literature, and at
the same time to their adaptability to the needs and limitations of
such organizations.

The Series, under the personal supervision of Mr. Barrett H. Clark,
instructor in the department of Dramatic Literature at Chautauqua,
New York, assistant stage manager and actor with Mrs. Fiske (season
1912-1913), now comprises 44 titles, more will make their appearance
during the year. Eventually there will be plays from ancient Greece
and Rome, Italy, Spain, France, Russia, Germany, and the Scandinavian
countries, representative of some of the best drama of all ages and
lands.

Each Play is prefaced by a concise historical note by Mr. Clark and
with a few suggestions for staging.




Plays Now Ready


=INDIAN SUMMER=, a comedy in one act by MEILHAC and HALEVY. This little
play, by two of the most famous writers of comedy of the last century,
has been played at the Comédie Francaise at Paris for upwards of forty
years, and remains one of the brightest and most popular works of the
period. PRICE 25 CENTS.

=ROSALIE=, by MAX MAUREY. A “Grand Guignol” comedy in one act, full
of verve and clever dialogue. Rosalie, the stubborn maid, leads her
none too amiable master and mistress into uncomfortable complications
by refusing to open the front door to a supposed guest of wealth and
influence. PRICE 25 CENTS.

=MODESTY=, by PAUL HERVIEU. A delightful trifle by one of the most
celebrated of living dramatists. PRICE 25 CENTS.

=THE ART OF BEING BORED=, (_Le Monde où l’on s’Ennuie_), a comedy in
three acts by EDOUARD PAILLERON. Probably the best-known and most
frequently acted comedy of manners in the realm of nineteenth century
French drama. It is replete with wit and comic situations. For nearly
forty years it has held the stage, while countless imitators have
endeavored to reproduce its freshness and charm. PRICE 25 CENTS.

=A MARRIAGE PROPOSAL=, by ANTON TCHEKHOFF, a comedy in one act, by one
of the greatest of modern Russian writers. This little farce is very
popular in Russia, and satirizes the peasants of that country in an
amusing manner. PRICE 25 CENTS.

=THE GREEN COAT=, by ALFRED DE MUSSET and EMILE AUGIER. A slight and
comic character sketch of the life of Bohemian artists in Paris,
written by one of France’s greatest poets and one of her best-known
dramatists. PRICE 25 CENTS.

=THE WAGER=, by GIUSEPPE GIACOSA. This one act poetic comedy, written
by the most celebrated dramatist of modern Italy, was the author’s
first work. It treats of a wager made by a proud young page, who risks
his life on the outcome of a game of chess. PRICE 25 CENTS.

=PANURGE’S SHEEP=, a comedy in one Act by MEILHAC and HALEVY. A famous
and often-acted little play based upon the obstinacy of a charming
woman, who is finally induced to marry. 1 man, 2 women. PRICE 25 CENTS.

=THE LAW-SUIT= (Der Prozess), a comedy in one act by RODERICH BENEDIX.
A famous comedy by the well-known German-dramatist--author of “The
Obstinate Family,” and “The Third Man.” The play is full of amusing
situations and bright lines. 5 men. PRICE 25 CENTS.

=THE THIRD MAN= (Der Dritte), a comedy in one act by RODERICH BENEDIX.
A highly amusing little comedy based upon the obstinacy of human
beings, and proves the truth of the saying that “love finds a way.” 3
women, 1 man. PRICE 25 CENTS.

=THE GENTLEMAN TRADESMAN= (Le Bourgeois Gentile-homme), a comedy in
four acts by MOLIERE. One of the best-known comedies of the celebrated
master of comedy. “The Gentleman Tradesman” ridicules the affectations
of M. Jourdain, a rich parvenu. 9 men, 5 women. PRICE 50 CENTS.

=THE SICILIAN= (Le Sicilien), a farce in two scenes by MOLIERE. One of
the lighter comedies of intrigue. This play is laid in Sicily, and has
to do with the capture of a beautiful Greek slave from her selfish and
tyrannical master. 4 men, 3 women. PRICE 25 CENTS.

=DOCTOR LOVE= (L’Amour Medecine), a farce in three acts by MOLIERE. An
uproarious farce, satirizing the medical profession. Through it runs
the story of a young girl who pretends to be ill in order that she may
marry the man she loves. 5 men, 4 women. PRICE 25 CENTS.

=THE AFFECTED YOUNG LADIES= (Les Precieuses Ridicules), a comedy in
one act by MOLIERE. The famous satire on intellectual and social
affectation. Like most of Moliere’s plays, the theme in this is ever
modern. 3 women, 6 men. PRICE 25 CENTS.

=I’M GOING!= A comedy in one act by TRISTAN BERNARD. A delightful bit
of comedy of obstinacy and reconciliation. 1 man, 1 woman. PRICE 25
CENTS.

=THE FAIRY= (La Fee), a romantic comedy in one act by OCTAVE FEUILLET.
Laid in a hut in Normandy, this little comedy is full of poetic charm
and quiet humor. The element of the supernatural is introduced in order
to drive home a strong lesson. 1 woman, 3 men. PRICE 25 CENTS.

=THE VILLAGE= (Le Village), a comedy in one act by OCTAVE FEUILLET. The
author here paints the picture of an elderly couple, and shows that
they have not realized their happiness until it is on the point of
being taken from them. 2 women, 2 men. PRICE 25 CENTS.

=THE DOCTOR IN SPITE OF HIMSELF=, by MOLIERE. A famous farce by the
greatest of French dramatists. Sganarelle has to be beaten before he
will acknowledge that he is a doctor, which he is not. He then works
apparently miraculous cures. The play is a sharp satire on the medical
profession in the 17th Century. PRICE 25 CENTS.

=BRIGNOL AND HIS DAUGHTER=, by CAPUS. The first comedy in English of
the most sprightly and satirical of present-day French dramatists.
PRICE 50 CENTS.

=CHOOSING A CAREER=, by G. A. DE CAILLAVET. Written by one of the
authors of “Love Watches.” A farce of mistaken identity, full of
humorous situations and bright lines. PRICE 25 CENTS.

=FRENCH WITHOUT A MASTER=, by TRISTAN BERNARD. A clever farce by one
of the most successful of French dramatists. It is concerned with the
difficulties of a bogus-interpreter who does not know a word of French.
PRICE 25 CENTS.

=PATER NOSTER=, a poetic play in one act, by FRANCOIS COPPEE. A
pathetic incident of the time of the Paris Commune, in 1871. PRICE 25
CENTS.

=THE ROMANCERS=, a comedy in three acts, by EDMOND ROSTAND. New
translation of this celebrated and charming little romantic play by the
famous author of “Cyrano de Bergerac” and “Chantecler.” PRICE 25 CENTS.

=THE MERCHANT GENTLEMAN=, (Le Bourgeois Gentil-homme), by MOLIERE. New
translation of one of Moliere’s comic masterpieces, a play which is
peculiarly well adapted to amateur production. PRICE 50 CENTS.

=THE HOUSE OF FOURCHAMBAULT=, by EMILE AUGIER. One of the greatest of
recent French family dramas. Although the play is serious in tone, it
contains touches which entitle it to a position among the best comedies
of manners of the times. PRICE 50 CENTS.

=PANURGE’S SHEEP=, a comedy in one Act by MEILHAC and HALEVY. A famous
and often-acted little play based upon the obstinacy of a charming
woman, who is finally induced to marry. 1 man, 2 women. PRICE 25 CENTS.

=THE LAW-SUIT=, (Der Prozess), a comedy in one act by RODERICH BENEDIX.
A famous comedy by the well-known German-dramatist--author of “The
Obstinate Family,” and “The Third Man.” The play is full of amusing
situations and bright lines. 5 men. PRICE 25 CENTS.

=THE THIRD MAN= (Der Dritte), a comedy in one act by RODERICH BENEDIX.
A highly amusing little comedy based upon the obstinacy of human
beings, and proves the truth of the saying that “love finds a way.” 3
women, 1 man. PRICE 25 CENTS.

=THE GENTLEMAN TRADESMAN= (Le Bourgeois Gentile-homme), a comedy in
four acts by MOLIERE. One of the best-known comedies of the celebrated
master of comedy. “The Gentleman Tradesman” ridicules the affectations
of M. Jourdain, a rich parvenu. 9 men, 5 women. PRICE 50 CENTS.

=THE SICILIAN= (Le Sicilien), a farce in two scenes by MOLIERE. One of
the lighter comedies of intrigue. This play is laid in Sicily, and has
to do with the capture of a beautiful Greek slave from her selfish and
tyrannical master. 4 men, 3 women. PRICE 25 CENTS.

=DOCTOR LOVE= (L’Amour Medecine), a farce in three acts by MOLIERE. An
uproarious farce, satirizing the medical profession. Through it runs
the story of a young girl who pretends to be ill in order that she may
marry the man she loves. 5 men, 4 women. PRICE 25 CENTS.

=THE AFFECTED YOUNG LADIES= (Les Precieuses Ridicules), a comedy in
one act by MOLIERE. The famous satire on intellectual and social
affectation. Like most of Moliere’s plays, the theme in this is ever
modern. 3 women, 6 men. PRICE 25 CENTS.

=I’M GOING!= A comedy in one act by TRISTAN BERNARD. A delightful bit
of comedy of obstinacy and reconciliation. 1 man, 1 woman. PRICE 25
CENTS.

=THE FAIRY= (La Fee), a romantic comedy in one act by OCTAVE FEUILLET.
Laid in a hut in Normandy, this little comedy is full of poetic charm
and quiet humor. The element of the supernatural is introduced in order
to drive home a strong lesson. 1 woman, 3 men. PRICE 25 CENTS.

=THE VILLAGE= (Le Village), a comedy in one act by OCTAVE FEUILLET. The
author here paints the picture of an elderly couple, and shows that
they have not realized their happiness until it is on the point of
being taken from them. 2 women, 2 men. PRICE 25 CENTS.

=THE BENEFICENT BEAR=, a comedy in three acts, by GOLDONI. One of the
best-known comedies of the Father of Italian Comedy. A costume piece
laid in 18th century France, the principal character in which is a
good-hearted, though gruff, old uncle. 4 men, 3 women. PRICE 25 CENTS.

=GRAMMAR= (La Grammaire), a farce in one act by LABICHE. An amusing
and charming comedy by one of the greatest of 19th century French
dramatists. 4 men, 1 woman. PRICE 25 CENTS.

=THE TWO COWARDS= (Les Deux Timides), a comedy in one act by LABICHE.
A very amusing and human little comedy, in which a strong-willed girl
helps her father choose for her the man she wishes to marry. 2 women, 3
men. PRICE 25 CENTS.

=MASTER PATELIN, SOLICITOR=, a comedy in three acts. Special version by
BRUEYS. One of the most famous of early French farces. The setting and
character belong to the late Middle Ages. The play is concerned with
the crooked dealings of a clever lawyer. 7 men, 2 women. PRICE 25 CENTS.

=CRISPIN, HIS MASTER’S RIVAL=, a comedy in one act by LE SAGE. A famous
comedy by the author of “Gil Blas,” concerned with the pranks of two
clever valets. 18th century costumes and settings. 4 men, 3 women.
PRICE 25 CENTS.

=THE LEGACY=, a comedy in one act by MARIVAUX. A delicate high comedy
of intrigue. Marivaux one of the masters of old French comedy, and this
play is full of deft touches of characterization. 2 women, 4 men. PRICE
25 CENTS.

=AFTER THE HONEYMOON=, a farce in one act by WOLFGANG GYALUI. A
Hungarian farce full of brilliant dialog and movement. 1 man, 1 woman.
PRICE 25 CENTS.

=A CHRISTMAS TALE=, a poetic play by MAURICE BOUCHOR. A beautiful
little miracle play of love and devotion, laid in 15th century Paris. 2
men, 2 women. PRICE 25 CENTS.

=CRAINQUEBILLE=, a play in three scenes by ANATOLE FRANCE. A delightful
series of pictures of Parisian street life, by the author of “The Man
Who Married a Dumb Wife.” 12 men, 6 women. PRICE 25 CENTS.

=JEAN-MARIE=, a poetic play in one act by ANDRE THEURIET. A pathetic
play of Norman peasant life. 2 men, 1 woman. PRICE 25 CENTS.

=THE REBOUND=, a comedy in one act by L. B. PICARD. A clever comedy of
intrigue, and a satire of social position. 2 women, 5 men. PRICE 25
CENTS.

=THE DOCTOR IN SPITE OF HIMSELF=, by MOLIERE. A famous farce by the
greatest of French dramatists. Sganarelle has to be beaten before he
will acknowledge that he is a doctor, which he is not. He then works
apparently miraculous cures. The play is a sharp satire on the medical
profession in the 17th Century. PRICE 25 CENTS.

=BRIGNOL AND HIS DAUGHTER=, by CAPUS. The first comedy in English of
the most sprightly and satirical of present-day French dramatists.
PRICE 50 CENTS.

=CHOOSING A CAREER=, by G. A. DE CAILLAVET. Written by one of the
authors of “Love Watches.” A farce of mistaken identity, full of
humorous situations and bright lines. PRICE 25 CENTS.

=FRENCH WITHOUT A MASTER=, by TRISTAN BERNARD. A clever farce by one
of the most successful of French dramatists. It is concerned with the
difficulties of a bogus-interpreter who does not know a word of French.
PRICE 25 CENTS.

=PATER NOSTER=, a poetic play in one act, by FRANCOIS COPPEE. A
pathetic incident of the time of the Paris Commune, in 1871. PRICE 25
CENTS.

=THE ROMANCERS=, a comedy in three acts, by EDMOND ROSTAND. New
translation of this celebrated and charming little romantic play by the
famous author of “Cyrano de Bergerac” and “Chantecler.” PRICE 25 CENTS.

=THE MERCHANT GENTLEMAN= (Le Bourgeois Gentil-homme), by MOLIERE. New
translation of one of Moliere’s comic masterpieces, a play which is
peculiarly well adapted to amateur production. PRICE 50 CENTS.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE SNOW MAN ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

• You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation.”

• You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
  works.

• You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

• You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you “AS-IS”, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™'s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
